# Cluster creation with Kubeadm

- Install the kubeadm. You can find the installtion command in Terraform/Installs/kube_and_java_install.sh
- Once the installation is complete, we need to initialize the Control-Plane node of the cluster using "kubeadm init" command.
- To make kubectl work for your non-root user, run these commands, which are also part of the kubeadm init output:
  ```
  mkdir -p $HOME/.kube
  sudo cp -i /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf $HOME/.kube/config
  sudo chown $(id -u):$(id -g) $HOME/.kube/config
  ```
- After initializing the cluster with "kubeadm init", you need to install network pods too for networking. You can use any pod-network that supports. One of the pod network that you can use is below.
  ```
    kubectl apply -f https://docs.projectcalico.org/manifests/calico.yaml
  ```
- The nodes are where your workloads (containers and Pods, etc) run. To add new nodes to your cluster do the following for each machine
   - SSH to the machine
   - Become root (e.g. sudo su -)
   - Install a runtime if needed
   - Run the join command that was output by kubeadm init.
 
  You can check if the nodes have joined or not using the following kubectl command
  ```
  kubectl get nodes
  ```
  and this should output the list of the node that have joined the cluster.

  Note: if you are able to run kubeclt commands from control plane but getting "api server" related error when trying to run commands on slave nodes, then you need to copy the cluster configuration file from control plane to the slave nodes too. You can find the location of the config files at "```$HOME/.kube/config```"
